add more introduction details and explict examples about how to use t… (#5282)
jenkins-infra/jenkins.io: content/projects/gsoc/2022/projects/jenkinsfile-runner-action-for-github-actions.adoc

=== Abstract
Jenkinsfile Runner Action for GitHub Actions provides the customized containerized environment and useful GitHub Actions for users to run the Jenkins pipeline inside GitHub Actions. 
In more detail, if using these actions, any GitHub project which has a `Jenkinsfile` can execute its workflow in the GitHub Actions runner.

> It aims at applying Jenkins in the GitHub Actions which is a Function-as-a-Service context.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It aims at applying Jenkins in the GitHub Actions in a Function-as-a-Service context.
```

This feature is based on the Jenkinsfile Runner, which is a command line tool for the Jenkins pipeline execution engine.
The user can define the Jenkins pipeline environment by extending several Vanilla images and configuring the Jenkins Configuration-as-Code plugin.

=== Rationale

> The Jenkins pipeline environment includes the Jenkins core war package, the Jenkinsfile Runner and minimum required set of plugins to run the pipeline.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Jenkins pipeline environment includes the Jenkins core war package, the Jenkinsfile Runner, and at a minimum a required set of plugins to run the pipeline.
```

The decoupling of environment declaration and Jenkinsfile Runner Action enables the users to utilize other useful GitHub Actions. This project will provide several vanilla images including necessary dependencies to run the Jenkins pipeline.
Users can extend these images to set up their customized environment.
What's more, the user can install the plugins, which is enabled by Plugin Installation Manager Tool, and then configure Jenkins, which is enabled by Configuration-as-Code plugin.
We'll also provide examples about how to store the pipeline artifacts,

> how to use the Jenkins secrets and environmental variables, how to use the cache to accelerate the pipeline and others.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
how to use the Jenkins secrets and environmental variables, how to use the cache to accelerate the pipeline, etc.
```

By providing these examples and iterating the current actions,

> we want the Jenkins pipeline fit the Cloud Native model gradually in the GitHub Actions context.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
we want the Jenkins pipeline to fit into the Cloud Native model gradually in the GitHub Actions context.
```

=== Examples

> We recommend to use two Jenkinsfile Runner Actions based on the container idea.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We recommend using either of two Jenkinsfile Runner Actions based on the container idea.
```

* `jfr-container-action` - If the job in workflow uses this action, it can run the pipeline by specifying `Jenkinsfile` and integrate with other GitHub Actions such as `actions/setup-java`. 
As it's based on the idea of link:https://docs.github.com/en/actions/using-jobs/running-jobs-in-a-container[Running jobs in a container],
the user needs to declare the image usage of `jenkins/jenkinsfile-runner` at the start of the job.
The users can call this action by using `Cr1t-GYM/jenkins-action-poc/jfr-container-action@master`. 

> An example about how to use this action can be found link:https://github.com/Cr1t-GYM/jenkins-action-poc#container-job-action[in the POC project].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An example about how to use this action can be found at link:https://github.com/Cr1t-GYM/jenkins-action-poc#container-job-action[in the POC project].
```

> Its function invocation in workflow definition looks like this.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Its function invocation in the workflow definition looks like the following:
```

[source,yaml]
----
container:
  # prerequisite
  image: jenkins/jenkinsfile-runner
steps:
  - uses: actions/checkout@v2
  # jfr-container-action function interface
  - uses:
      Cr1t-GYM/jenkins-action-poc/jfr-container-action@master
    with:
      command: run
      jenkinsfile: Jenkinsfile
      pluginstxt: plugins.txt
      jcasc: jcasc.yml
----

* `jfr-static-image-action` - This action can also run the pipeline.

> However, because of the late start of Jenkins container, this action has strong isolation with the host machine.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
However, because of the late-start nature of the Jenkins container, this action is expected to experience strong isolation from the host machine.
```

Therefore, the users cannot use other GitHub Actions except using `actions/checkout` to set up the workspace. The users can call this action by using `Cr1t-GYM/jenkins-action-poc/jfr-static-image-action@master`.

> An example about how to use this action can be found link:https://github.com/Cr1t-GYM/jenkins-action-poc#docker-container-action[in the POC project].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An example about how to use this action can be found at link:https://github.com/Cr1t-GYM/jenkins-action-poc#docker-container-action[in the POC project].
```

> Its function invocation in workflow definition looks like this.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Its function invocation in the workflow definition looks like the following:
```
